= Meeting on 2nd September 2021

* Time: 19:00 (Barcelona time)
* Attendees: 7
* Recorded: yes, on the chair’s computer

== Agenda

* Short introductions (DONE)
* Charter discussion (ONGOING)
* Vision briefing (ONGOING)
* Gap analysis tasks (NOT STARTED)

== Summary

=== The round of introductions shows a wide range of members

* Atif Zafar, from Pixilica (a provider of development boards).
* Iakovos Stamoulis, director of engineering at Applied Materials
(formerly known as Think Silicon, provider of graphics IP).
* Jeff Scheel, technical program manager from RVI
* Mark Himelstein, CTO from RVI
* Simon Davidmann, CEO from Imperas (provider of simulation models
widely used in design verification)
* Richard Van, Chief CPU Architect and director of CPU Team at Futurewei
Technologies (interested in heterogenous computing).
* Abel Bernabeu, senior machine learning engineer from Esperanto
Technologies (formerly a graphics company).

=== The charter needs a few tweaks

* The concept of programmable shaders is too prescriptive, while members
are generally interested in graphics, even beyond the current methods
for delivering them.
* The scope of our interactions should not be described as only
involving RVI, but can involve other organizations.
* The constituency is too narrow (as proved by the variety of
attendees!).

=== I briefed my vision, that triggered an interesting discussion on patents

* Iakovos: As in other forums like Khronos, there should be some kind of
patents discussion for making things clear from the begin.
* Mark: we do not discuss these matters on RISC-V venues.
* Atif: patents should belong to the implementation, not the ISA.
* Abel: I do not think we are infringing any yet.

Mark’s overall advise is try to not tie the specs to specific methods
that could be subject to patent. We can still produce useful specs
without using specific adjectives or design constructs that are not
essential for our purpose but can trigger patent claims.

=== Tasks for attendees

Abel (chair): - I agree on improving the charter as suggested and
circulating a Google Docs link on the mailing list for attendees to
actively drive more changes as needed. - Because some members have
expressed they can not attend next week, after the meeting I decide to
circulate a Google Form on the mailing list for finding out whether
there is an optimal meeting time and frequency for the group.
