= RISC-V Graphics and ML SIG meeting on 20th January 2022

* Time: 19:00 (Barcelona time)
* Attendees:
** Abel Bernabeu (Esperanto Technologies, Chair)
** Christoph Müllner (SBA Research)
** Jeff Scheel (RISC-V)
** Peter Lieber (Individual contributor)
** Mehmet Oguz Derin (Individual contributor)
** Michael Wong (Codeplay, Chair from Datacenter SIG)
** Mick Thomas Lim (Individual contributor)
** Richard Van (Futurewei)
* Recorded: yes, on the chair’s computer

== Agenda

The session was focused on Graphics.

* Birds of a feather: Zvediv needed for graphics (DONE)
* Birds of a feather: aligning priorities with employers (DONE)

== Logistics

Regarding the #sig-graphics channel within the
https://risc-v-international.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-geth2rmq-JQdqM8L9ai3r4Sw6Pu8ILA#/shared-invite/email[RISC-V
Slack workspace], Jeff reminds us that technical discussions should be
searchable through the working groups portal, and therefore anything
technically relevant is likely better placed on our mailing lists.

I (Abel) agree, adding that we prefer growing the community by allowing
members to engage on conversations through the mailing list, but I see a
few use cases for Slack:

* asking embarrassing technical questions that are not necessarily
relevant for everyone
* getting immediate answers for unblocking individuals trying to run
scripts and that sort of things.

Last, but not least, Jeff suggested to make our GitHub
https://github.com/riscv-admin/graphics[repo] a bit more useful by
replacing the one-liner template we had with something else (which I did
over the weekend!).

== Zvediv needed for graphics

The https://github.com/riscv/riscv-v-spec/blob/master/ediv.adoc[Zvediv]
(Divided Element) extension would have provided workgroups, needed for
competitive performance on graphics. Note that when I use the term
``workgroups'' I mean ``warp parallelism'' or ``wave paralellism'', with
the three terms them being synonyms in my own interpretation.

However, the extension was dropped in the last minute and not ratified
as part of Zve. We had a discussion on why is useful for graphics, which
would be the ideal use case. I suggest to try to resurrect the extension
for graphics, which in principle should be easier than creating a new
group from scratch in terms of process.

There are few questions that are worth for the graphics group to try to
answer:

* What is the status
* What are the reasons why it was dropped
* Future plans

Jeff Scheel suggests to contact Andrew Waterman for helping to answer
those questions.

Regarding the conversation with Andrew Waterman needing to be public (in
the spirit of RISC-V being community-driven), Christoph points out that
not every single communication instance has to be public as long as
there are enough opportunities for other members to take part through
the corresponding committees.

I volunteer to start the conversation through email.

== Aligning priorities with employers

The discussion on the second part of the session was about how can our
group better align with the interest of our employer companies. We feel
this alignment is needed for employers willing to contribute more
resources (in terms of working time).

While the question is difficult to answer, we get at least two things
clear:

* An agreement that this question is key for RISC-V.
* Jeff points out that the question is important enough for moving it to
our mailing list, where the participation is bigger. As of today more
than 100 members as opposed to the 10 members regularly attending our
meetings.

== Comments on the gap analysis draft

Comments received on the current draft of the gap analysis:

* Peter: keep assuming the document is read by people without graphics
expertise.
* Oguz: make clear what things are going to be fixed function as opposed
to software.

== Volunteering opportunities on graphics

* Everyone who can read this, feel free to make comments on the
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vFo2vf1AnwXElmK-UuttYSU2Heo2VAuP/edit#heading=h.pbu2u3akt0l5[live
document of gap analysis]
